Questions
Multiple Choice Questions
Loops Questions
1. Which of the following is not a part of the IPO pattern?
a)Input     b)Program   c)Process   d)Output

2. In Python, getting user input is done with a special expression called.
a)for       b)read      c)simultaneous assignment   d)input

Function Questions
3. A Python function definition begins with
a)def       b)define    c)function  d)defun

4.A function with no return statement returns
a)nothing   b)its parameters    c)its variables     d)None

Decision Questions
5. An expression that evaluates to either true or false is called
a)operational   b)Boolean   c)simple    d)compound

6.The literals for type bool are
a)T,F       b)True,False    c)true,false    d)procrastination

DataTypes Questions
7. Which of the following is not a Python type-conversion function?
a)float     b)round     c)int       d)long

8.The number of distinct values that can be represented using 5 bits is
a)5     b)10        c)32        d)50

Built-in Functions
9.The part of a program that uses a function is called the
a)user      b)caller    c)callee    d)statement

10.A function can send output back to the program with a(n)
a)return    b)print     c)assignment    d)SASE

Recursion
11.Recursions on sequence often use this as a base case:
a)0     b)1     c)an empty sequence d)None

12.The recursive Fibonacci function is inefficient because
a)it does many repeated computations    b)recursion is inherently inefficient compared to iteration
c)calculating Fibonacci numbers is intractable  d)fibbing is morally wrong

Algorithms
13.An algorithm is like a
a)newspaper b)venus flytrap     c)drum      d)recipe

14.Which algorithm requires time directly proportional to the size of the input?
a)linear search b)binary search     c)merge sort    d)selection sort

Top-down design
15.Which of the following is not one of the fundamental characteristics of object-oriented design/programming?
a)inheritance   b)polymorphism      c)generally d)encapsulation

Objects
16.What graphics class would be best for drawing a square?
a)Square    b)Polygon   c)Line      d)Rectangle

17.A user interface organized around visual elements and users actions is called a (n)
a)GUI       b)application   c)windower  d)API

def main():
    infile = open("30075165.txt","r")
    categories = raw_input("Please enter the four categories that are in the exam: ")
    totalmarks = input("Please enter the total marks in the exam: ")
    mc = input("Please enter the amount of multiple choice questions in the exam: ")

main()

