ICRaffle
an Elder Scrolls Online add-on for collecting guild sales and deposit history.

guild sales for the last week, from Master Merchant
as totals per-user
as a flat list of individual sales


guild bank deposits for same time period
as totals per-user
as a flat list of individual deposits


guild rank
rank index for each guild member
separate table of rank names to join by index


invited by which guild member, when
also includes ex-guild members who left, or were kicked, when and by whom.



GitHub Repo
https://github.com/ziggr/ESO-ICRaffle
Results
The results can look something like this Google sheet

To produce the exact output format that you need, write your own text file converter to read SavedVariables/ICRaffle.lua:

Operating Instructions

Install ICRaffle addon.
Also install and enable Master Merchant and LibAddOnMenu-2.0 addons: both are required. You probably already have them.
Log into the game.
   ICRaffle fetches guild roster history. The first time this runs, it can take a few minutes. Later fetches will only take a second or two. The scan is intentionally throttled to avoid being kicked from server for too many API requests.
   
Wait until ICRaffle finishes.


You do not have to /reloadui or /logout right away. You can wait until after the next steps. Or not. Your call.
5. Run /icraffle to fetch guild sales and donation history:
   
This also can take a few seconds to complete:


/reloadui to write all data to SavedVariables/ICRaffle.lua

At this point you now have a SavedVariables text file. Process it into whatever spreadsheet or external programming you need.
Settings
In Settings/Addons/ICRaffle, choose which guild to export, and which date range:
​    
Changing either will reset all data: next time you /reloadui it will re-scan the guild invite history.
The Scan Now button is the same as typing /icraffle in the chat window.
The weekly cutoff for "last week" is defined within Master Merchant as the Sunday trader flip time: 8pm EST or 9 pm EDT.
Guild Sales Records from Master Merchant
You must run /mm missing right before running this add-on.
Master Merchant has a known bug that causes it to omit some sales records.
Before I learned to always run /mm missing each Sunday night, I would get several guildies complaining that they did not get credit for all their sales that week. The guildies were correct. Once I started running /mm missing every Sunday before running guild quotas, the sales were all correctly recorded and guildies were much happier.
Guild Bank Deposits
You must collect guild bank depost data every 10 days or sooner.
Guild bank history only goes back 10 days. You need to run this add-on within 10 days of the start of the raffle window if you don't want to lose deposit information.
This became a problem once or twice per year in my other guild, when we'd skip the occasional raffle. We would run the add-on and save a copy of the exported ticket deposits, then hand-merge that data into the spreadsheet that drove the raffle tickets.
Guild Roster
Guild roster history goes back 6 months or more, so just about everybody except long-timers will get their actual join date and invitor.
The first time you scan guild roster history, it can take several minutes. The scan is intentionally throttled to avoid getting kicked for too many server requests. Later scans take seconds or less.
The add-on automatically scans the guild roster once per day on login. It records that it did its daily scan, and then goes quiet for the rest of the day.
Data
SavedVariables/ICRaffle.lua contains four tables:

roster
sale_list
deposit_list
guild_rank

Timestamps: seconds since the epoch
All timestamps are integer seconds since 1970-01-01.
Use your favorite date/time library to convert that to something human-readable:

roster: one row per user
Includes ex-guild-members.
Includes non-guild-members as buyers, in case your guild sends thank you gives or recruiting prizes to big purchasers.
Schema

user_id: "@Geddy"  the account name
is_member: 1 or 0. Was this user a member at the time you ran /icraffle?
  Note that "at the time you ran /icraffle is always after the time range of the exported sales/donations. If you want to know if this user was a member during the time range, you'll have to check the join/leave timestamps and do some comparisons yourself.
rank_index: Index into guild_rank , if this user is a guild member.
invitor: Who invited this user to the guild? Blank if user joined further in the past than guild history remembers.
kicker: Who kicked this user out of the guild?
join_ts: When did this user join?
leave_ts: When did this user leave, either voluntarily or by kick?
guild_note: Guild member note from guild roster screen. Stuck at the end of the schema because these notes tend to be long and free-form and clutter up the display.

Gold: sum of gold deposits to guild bank during the period. Total of applicable rows from deposit_list table.

gold.total: How much gold did this user deposit into the guild bank during the time period?
gold.event_ct: How many separate gold deposits did this user make?
gold.earliest_ts:  When did the first gold deposit occur during the time period.
gold.latest_ts: When last gold deposit?

Sold: sum of sales through guild store during the time period. Total of applicable rows from sale_list table.

sold.total: Total gold value sold through guild store during the time period.
sold.event_ct: Number of individual sales during the time period.
sold.earliest_ts: First sale during the time period.
sold.latest_ts: Last sale.

Bought: sum of purchases through guild store. Tends to pick up a lot of non-guild-member rows. Total of applicable rows from sale_list table.

bought.total: Total gold value purchased through guild store during the time period.
bought.event_ct: Number of individual purchases.
bought.earliest_ts: First purchase.
bought.latest_ts: Last purchase.

Sample data

Looks like @TheLowkeyLoki has been around longer than the six months: no invite in six months of retained history. Also lots of guild bank deposits: 5 deposits totaling 131,000 gold. That rank 2 "Radiant Apex" might be related to all those deposits.
Also looks like @emiliana_eso has had enough of @Abe_13, kicking them five months ago on 2018-07-01 (1530493355).
deposit_list: gold deposits to guild bank
Each individual gold deposit to the guild bank shows up here, just like in the Guild History screen, Bank.
Schema

timestamp
user
gold

Sample data

sale_list
Each individual sale. What shows up in Master Merchant if you view by item, show all data.
Schema

timestamp
gold: this is the total gold paid for this sale, not per-item
seller
buyer
item_ct: if this was a stack of 2 or more materials or whatever
item_link

Sample data

guild_rank
A tiny table that you will probably join to roster.rank_index.
Schema

index
rank

Sample data
