This is a python port of libsignal-protocol-java originally written by Moxie Marlinspike
Compare with
libsignal-protocol-php
forked from
libaxolotl-php,
which is a php port.
Overview from original author's:

This is a ratcheting forward secrecy protocol that works in synchronous and asynchronous messaging environments. The protocol overview is available here, and the details of the wire format are available here.

Read rest of of details here.
Installation
The library has some dependencies which are automatically pulled and installed if you use the instructions below for your OS

protobuf 2.6+
pycrypto
python-axolotl-curve25519

Linux
You need to have python headers installed, usually through installing a package called python-dev, then as superuser run:
python setup.py install
Mac
I don't have mac to test. Send me instructions or a MacBook.
Windows

Install mingw compiler
Add mingw to your PATH
In PYTHONPATH\Lib\distutils create a file called distutils.cfg and add these lines:

[build]
compiler=mingw32

Install gcc: mingw-get.exe install gcc
Install zlib
python setup.py install

If pycrypto fails to install with some "chmod error". You can install it separately using something like 
easy_install http://www.voidspace.org.uk/downloads/pycrypto26/pycrypto-2.6.win32-py2.7.exe
and then rerun the install command again
Usage
This python port is done in an almost 1:1 mapping to the original java code. Therefore any original documentation for the java code can be easily mapped and used with this python port.
Install time
At install time, a libaxolotl client needs to generate its identity keys, registration id, and
prekeys.

Building a session
A libaxolotl client needs to implement four interfaces: IdentityKeyStore, PreKeyStore, 
SignedPreKeyStore, and SessionStore.  These will manage loading and storing of identity, 
prekeys, signed prekeys, and session state.
Once those are implemented, building a session is fairly straightforward:

Examples
python-axolotl is actively used in yowsup to support the new end to end encryption in WhatsApp
License
Licensed under the GPLv3: http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.html