Moonads

Fly me to the moon
Let me play among the stars

Fly me to the moon, Wikipedia
Overview
Moonads is a library with:

Helpers to easily compose monads
Various implementations of monad composition. Currently:
one based on Monad Transformers
one based on Traverse (unlawful)
A way to select which implementation to use (with just one import)

Examples
Monad instance creation

For comprehension

Getting Moonads
Moonads is in its earliest stages and has not been released yet.
Detailed Information
Moonads was inspired by this talk at the Scala Exchange 2016:
Extensible Effects vs. Monad Transformers
More specifically, I wanted to try and see if I could find a generic way to compose monads.
It turns out that Monad composition is a hot topic with a lot of research going on. My own initial approach (based on Traverse) is unlawful, but during that initial development and some online conversations, I was able to separate how the composition is implemented from how is used.
The ComposableMonad type class
The ComposableMonad type class defined for a Monad B provides a single operation composeInto receiving a Monad A and returning a new Monad resulting from the composition of A wrapping B.
This is its definition:

This provides a mechanism for components that want to be able to compose monads, and don't want to worry about how, to depend on the type class.
ALSO, it provides a proof that a particular composition can be performed at compile time: if an instance of ComposableMonad for B is available in scope, that means the composition can happen.
Currently Moonads has two sets of implementations:

import moonads.composers.monadT._
Provides a ComposableMonad for every Monad that happens to have a Monad Transformer implemented in Cats. (Well, currently only Either, Option and Id. Implementations for State and Writer are under way)
import moonads.composers.experimental.unlawfulTraverse
Provides a ComposableMonad for every Monad for which it also exists a Traverse
This type of composition is unlawful (I believe investigation on how to restrict this to cases where the composition is lawful is being made)
I want to spend some time understanding what exactly this kind of composition produces
EXPERIMENTAL

It's important to be noted that, to compose two monads, you only need a ComposableMonad for the innermost monad. That is, you can compose List[Option[?]] even when no Monad Transformer exist for List (in Cats, as of now)  
Monad instance generation
You can get an instance of Monad for the composition of up to four stacked monads like this:

For comprehension syntax
If you have a series of methods that operate with the same stack of monads, it tends to be useful to use for comprehension to have a clearer syntax. Moonads provides helpers to make it easier to work with:

You can choose up to which level you want to stack to:

Known Issues

The Monad Transformer based implementation still has no implementation for State or Writer
As pointed out by Daniel Spiewak here
  and here, composition through Traverse is not lawful
You can only stack up to 4 monads with the current implementation. I
  will increase this limit up to 22 (see Future Work)

Future Work

Implement the ComposableMonad for State and Writer in the Monad Transformer based implementation
Create a third composer implementation that contain all the ComposableMonad based on monad transformers, extended with all (some) the ComposableMonad based on Traverse that are lawful (if any)
Investigate how to compose two monads by taking their free product,
  as suggested by Rúnar Bjarnason in here
Increase the maximum stack size from 4 to 22, using code generator with SBT
Try to make the for comprehension syntax cleaner/friendlier

Related Projects

Cats provides the monads, Moonads the composition
Emm - A general monad for managing stacking effects (It's a really similar project to Moonads)

Thanks
I would like to thank Erik Osheim for his keynote in the last scala exchange:
Visions for collaboration, competition, and interop in Scala
which convinced me to publish this and provided the template for this README file.
Also to all the friendly feedback I've recieved on twitter!
Copyright and License
All code is available to you under the MIT license, available at
http://opensource.org/licenses/mit-license.php and also in the
LICENSE file.
Copyright Marc Esquerra, 2016.
No Warranty

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND
NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS
BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN
ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
