cl-mediawiki-v is a client-side Common Lisp API to access Wiki servers built on MediaWiki engine. Basically it lets to develop bots for Wikipedia/Wikimedia projects.
This is a fork of the cl-mediawiki library developed by AccelerationNet. This fork, unlike the original, uses JSON as the data exchange format with the server.
The util directory has some basic tools developed with this library:


catstree.lisp walks the directories tree starting from the given
  directory and produces a list of all directories it walked through.


missing-topics.lisp walks a list of directories, compiles a list
  of articles in these directories and produces a list of missing
  (red) links. Then it sorts them based on the popularity and prints a
  wiki table. Something like a missing topics tool.


page-views.lisp together with dump-category.lisp can be used to
  create a 'Top 100' list by the number of user views in a given
  category (like articles belonging to a certain Wiki project).


Utils in this category are collected together in the
cl-mediawiki-util package (nicknamed mw-util).
Also check examples folder for the use-cases (some of them might be useful).
Usage
This library is not yet present in the Quicklisp repository. In order to use it follow the relevant instructions (Can I load a local project that isn't part of Quicklisp?) in the Quicklisp FAQ.
Functions are exported into the cl-mediawiki and wiki package names.
Use with-mediawiki macro to initialize the wiki client API instance:
(wiki:with-mediawiki ("http://uk.wikipedia.org/w")
  ;; put your code here
)

Currently following functions are provided (please check corresponding sources for up-to-date information):
Query

login
siteinfo
userinfo
get-page-content
get-action-tokens
recent-changes
user-contribs
list-category-members
get-page-to-edit
get-page-links

Edit

set-page-content
append-text-to-page
prepend-text-to-page
add-new-page-section
create-page
get-page-info
pages-that-embed

Util

user-anon-p
has-messages-p

Some of them are tested and used more often and are considered operational. See the supplied utils for usage examples.