HORIZONS.jl

 
An interface to NASA-JPL HORIZONS system in
Julia.
Author

Jorge A. Pérez-Hernández,
Instituto de Ciencias Físicas, Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México (UNAM)

Comments, suggestions, and improvements are welcome and appreciated.
Installation
HORIZONS.jl is a registered Julia package and may be installed
from the Julia REPL doing import Pkg; Pkg.add("HORIZONS"). Current stable
release is v0.3.0, which is compatible with Julia 1.0, 1.3 and 1.4.
External dependencies
Connection to the HORIZONS machine is done via the telnet command line
utility, which should be locally installed and enabled. File downloading is done via ftp.
Usage examples
The horizons() function is a shortcut to the HORIZONS telnet interface
prompt from the Julia REPL:

HORIZONS.jl also has Julia functions which for some of the scripts authored by
Jon D. Giorgini for automated generation of small-body binary SPK files and tables.
These scripts were originally written in expect, and can be found at the
JPL's Solar System Dynamics group ftp server ftp://ssd.jpl.nasa.gov/pub/ssd/SCRIPTS/.
Below, we describe the functions smb_spk, smb_spk_ele and vec_tbl.
smb_spk
The smb_spk function automates generation and downloading of Solar System
small-bodies binary SPK files from HORIZONS:

smb_spk_ele
HORIZONS.jl function smb_spk_ele generates .bsp binary SPK files for
small-bodies from a set of osculating orbital elements at a given epoch:

vec_tbl
HORIZONS.jl function vec_tbl allows the user to generate vector tables for
designated objects and save the output into a file:

Note that CENTER, REF_PLANE, etc., are keyword arguments. If they are omitted
from the vec_tbl call, then they will take default values:

More details about default values of keyword arguments are available in the
vec_tbl docstrings.
If the output file is not specified, then vec_tbl returns the output as a
string, which may be then used for further processing within Julia:

Julia's broadcasting allows the user to get many vector tables at once:

Additionally, the vec_tbl_csv function returns HORIZONS output both as an
Array{Any,2} and a CSV-formatted String, which
can in turn be used to construct a DataFrame (requires
DataFrames.jl to be installed):

Then, mydataframe is a 16×8 DataFrame:

License
HORIZONS.jl is licensed under the MIT "Expat" license.
Acknowledgments
The HORIZONS system itself is the work of several people at JPL:

Design/implementation :
Jon Giorgini
Don Yeomans
Cognizant Eng.:
Jon Giorgini
Major body ephemerides:
William Folkner (Planetary ephemerides)
Bob Jacobson    (Satellites)
Marina Brozovic (Satellites)
Contributors:
Alan Chamberlin (web interface, database)
Paul Chodas     (some subroutines)
The NAIF group  (SPICELIB) (esp. Chuck Acton, Bill Taber, Nat Bachman)

Translation from the original expect scripts to Julia was done using the
Expect.jl package.
References

HORIZONS documentation (HTML)
Giorgini, J.D., Yeomans, D.K., Chamberlin, A.B., Chodas, P.W.,
    Jacobson, R.A., Keesey, M.S., Lieske, J.H., Ostro, S.J.,
    Standish, E.M., Wimberly, R.N., "JPL's On-Line Solar System Data
    Service", Bulletin of the American Astronomical Society, Vol 28,
    No. 3, p. 1158, 1996.
