SysReporter
SysReporter (System Reporter) is a bash script that runs and aggregates a set of reports about its host system. The report can then be emailed to the system administrator on a daily, hourly, minutely basis.
Requirements

mail transfer agent (if emailing is enabled)
sysstat (if using the DiskCPUio, processStats, or sar reports)

Installation
Package Manager
Linux distro packages are available for Ubuntu, Fedora, Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), and CentOS. This is the easiest way to install sysreporter but these package may be outdated compared to the source. Typically this isn't an issue.
Ubuntu:
shell
$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:lfkeitel/sysreporter
$ sudo apt-get update
$ sudo apt-get install sysreporter
Fedora:
shell
$ dnf install sysreporter
RHEL/CentOS:
shell
$ yum install http://download.fedoraproject.org/epel/epel-release-latest-7.noarch.rpm  For RHEL/CentOS 7 (if EPEL is not already installed)
$ yum install http://download.fedoraproject.org/epel/epel-release-latest-6.noarch.rpm  For RHEL/CentOS 6 (if EPEL is not already installed)
$ yum install sysreporter
Automatic - Source

Download and extract the latest release source
Run sudo make install
That's it. The sysreport command should now be available. Configuration and reports are located at /etc/sysreporter. To learn how to use it, run man sysreport.

Portable - Source

Download the source and extract it
Copy the sample config file to sysreporter.conf
Edit sysreporter.conf and set the settings to your liking. The EMAIL_TO field must be set to send email. Addresses are separated by a comma. Eg. email@example.com, email2@example.com.

Usage
sysreport [command] [arguments]
Commands:

run - Run a full report and email if enabled
Arguments:
stdout - Print the full report to standard output. Will not send an email.
email - Default, if no argument is given this is implied. Will compile a report as usual and email if email is enabled.




show - Show enabled and disabled reports
enable - Enable a set of reports sysreport enable 41 or sysreport enable apache
disable - Disable a set of reports, same syntax as enable
help - Show usage
version - Show version

Reports may require elevated privileges to run. Make sure sysreport is ran from a user with appropriate system privileges.
Setup Email
Sysreporter can be configured to use just about any standard mail transfer agent that takes the email as standard input. If an MTA is not specified, ssmtp is assumed. The agent is set using the MAILER setting.
ssmtp
You may want to set FromLineOverride=YES in your ssmtp.conf to allow the settings from EMAIL_FROM to be effective.
Setup Cron
A simple way to use sysreporter is to setup ssmtp and setup a cron job to run periodically. The easiest way to set that up is to use crontab by running crontab -e and adding the line 0 9 * * * /usr/bin/sysreport run email >/dev/null 2>&1. This job will email a report everyday at 9:00a.
Setup sysstat
The default reports 31-DiskCPUio, 35-processStats, and 36-sar require the sysstat package. If this package is not installed the reports won't run. If you want to use any of these reports follow these instructions below.

Install the sysstat package using your distro's package manager
Enable data collection using one of the following methods:
Ubuntu: Edit /etc/default/sysstat and change ENABLED to true
Fedora: Run sudo systemctl enable sysstat.service
Other: Check for the sysstat config file and if it doesn't exist and your system uses systemd, use the Fedora instructions. Ubuntu versions that use systemd still use the old config file method.


Restart the sysstat service:
Ubuntu: sudo service sysstat restart
Fedora: sudo systemctl start sysstat.service



It will take some time for sysstat to capture data. After a few hours to a day it'll have collected a good chunk of data to look at.
Reports
Reports are located in the reports.d folder. Reports must be executable. Unexecutable files will be ignored as well as files that don't match the FILTER setting. The executable may be anything including a shell script, php/perl/ruby/etc script, or even a binary. Reports must print their heading and body to standard output using unix line endings which will be taken by the aggregator. The first line will be interpreted as the report header, the remaining will be the report body. An empty line between the header and body is not necessary. See the default reports for examples. Reports are executed in alphabetical order. To ensure a particular order it's recommended to use a numbered prefix such as 10-Report.sh, 20-Report2.sh. This will ensure correct order.
The location of the reports.d directory when installed via an OS package will normally be at /etc/sysreporter/reports.d. Otherwise it will typically be in the same folder as the main script. The location is configurable in the configuration file. You can check the location by running sysreport show.
Default Reports (30s)

Currently logged in users
CPU/Disk IO (sysstat)
Disk usage
Last boot time
Last 10 logged in users
Process statistics (sysstat)
System activity report (sysstat)
Last 25 syslog messages

Reports marked with "sysstat" require that package to run.
Extra Reports (40s)

Elasticsearch log tail
You will need to change the file name of the log file


Apache access log tail
Apache error log tail
Nginx access log tail
Nginx error log tail
NTP statistics (ntpq, ntpstat)

License
Copyright (c) 2015 Lee Keitel lee@onesimussystems.com
Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:
The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in
all copies or substantial portions of the Software.
THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN
THE SOFTWARE.