hubot 
hubot is a chat bot built on the Hubot framework. It was
initially generated by generator-hubot, and configured to be
deployed on Heroku to get you up and running as quick as possible.
This README is intended to help get you started. Definitely update and improve
to talk about your own instance, how to use and deploy, what functionality he
has, etc!
Running hubot Locally
You can test your hubot by running the following, however some plugins will not
behave as expected unless the environment variables they rely
upon have been set.
You can start hubot locally by running:
% bin/hubot

You'll see some start up output and a prompt:
[Sat Feb 28 2015 12:38:27 GMT+0000 (GMT)] INFO Using default redis on localhost:6379
hubot>

Then you can interact with hubot by typing hubot help.
hubot> hubot help
hubot animate me <query> - The same thing as `image me`, except adds [snip]
hubot help - Displays all of the help commands that hubot knows about.
...

Scripting
An example script is included at scripts/example.coffee, so check it out to
get started, along with the Scripting Guide.
For many common tasks, there's a good chance someone has already one to do just
the thing.
external-scripts
There will inevitably be functionality that everyone will want. Instead of
writing it yourself, you can use existing plugins.
Hubot is able to load plugins from third-party npm packages. This is the
recommended way to add functionality to your hubot. You can get a list of
available hubot plugins on npmjs.com or by using npm search:
% npm search hubot-scripts panda
NAME             DESCRIPTION                        AUTHOR DATE       VERSION KEYWORDS
hubot-pandapanda a hubot script for panda responses =missu 2014-11-30 0.9.2   hubot hubot-scripts panda
...

To use a package, check the package's documentation, but in general it is:

Use npm install --save to add the package to package.json and install it
Add the package name to external-scripts.json as a double quoted string

You can review external-scripts.json to see what is included by default.
Advanced Usage
It is also possible to define external-scripts.json as an object to
explicitly specify which scripts from a package should be included. The example
below, for example, will only activate two of the six available scripts inside
the hubot-fun plugin, but all four of those in hubot-auto-deploy.
json
{
  "hubot-fun": [
    "crazy",
    "thanks"
  ],
  "hubot-auto-deploy": "*"
}
Be aware that not all plugins support this usage and will typically fallback
to including all scripts.
hubot-scripts
Before hubot plugin packages were adopted, most plugins were held in the
hubot-scripts package. Some of these plugins have yet to be
migrated to their own packages. They can still be used but the setup is a bit
different.
To enable scripts from the hubot-scripts package, add the script name with
extension as a double quoted string to the hubot-scripts.json file in this
repo.