ENSIME
the ENhanced Scala Interaction Mode for Emacs
Links

 Downloads 
 Manual 
 Discussion Group 

Features

Highlight errors and warnings in your code buffers.
Inspect the type of any expression.
Browse packages
Completion for variables, methods, constructors, etc.
Incrementally search through classpath symbols
Find references to a symbol
Jump to symbol definitions.
Automated Refactorings (rename, organize imports, extract method)
Source Formatting
AST-based selection
Supports sbt,Maven,Ivy projects
Embedded sbt shell
REPL
Debugger

Demo Videos

Overview (a bit out of date)
Searching
Debugger Support
Import Suggestions

System Requirements

Emacs 22 or later.
Unix-like OS or Windows.
Java Runtime
A Scala 2.8.1 compatible project. 

Documentation

The ENSIME User Manual

Quick Start
1) Install scala-mode
ENSIME is designed to compliment scala-mode (or any other scala language mode). scala-mode can be found in the Scala distribution under ./misc/scala-tool-support/emacs/. The rest of the steps assume your scala-mode is installed and working correctly.
2) Install ensime-mode
Download the ENSIME distribution from the github downloads page. Unpack the ENSIME distribution into a directory of your choosing. 
Add the following lines to your .emacs file:
;; Load the ensime lisp code...
(add-to-list 'load-path "ENSIME_ROOT/elisp/")
(require 'ensime)

;; This step causes the ensime-mode to be started whenever
;; scala-mode is started for a buffer. You may have to customize this step
;; if you're not using the standard scala mode.
(add-hook 'scala-mode-hook 'ensime-scala-mode-hook)

;; MINI HOWTO: 
;; Open .scala file. M-x ensime (once per project)

3) Verify Permissions
Verify that the startup script (usually bin/server.sh) has executable permissions.
4) Create Project
In Emacs, execute M-x ensime-config-gen. Follow directions in the mini-buffer to create a .ensime file for your project.. 
5) Start ENSIME
Execute M-x ensime
You only need to do this once per project.
Developer Quick Start
Note: This section is for people who want to hack on ENSIME itself.
After cloning, and before you can run ENSIME, you must create the distribution directory structure. The sbt task 'stage' will create the directory 'dist' underneath the root clone directory. Then, follow the install instructions in section 2.2 above, substituting CLONE_DIR/dist as the root of your ENSIME distribution.
The work-flow I use when hacking ENSIME:

Edit source files
'sbt update'
'sbt dist'
Stop existing ENSIME server by killing inferior-ensime-server buffer
Restart ENSIME with M-x ensime
