242FinalProject
Final project for CS242 - Universty of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign
U O Me - Mobile application
All rights reserved
Project Purpose
There are apps like Venmo or Square Cash where friends can easily pay other friends for any occasion. But there currently isn’t an app where friends can give or receive favors from other friends where money doesn’t have to be involved. This app will be a fun social app where friends compete with other friends by giving favors and earning points. This idea also connects the community in a positive way.
Background/Motivation
Venmo is a really popular app and they tie in the social aspect by allowing a user to see what his/her friends are paying other friends for. People need and give favors to their friends very frequently. Our app will provide a fun way to keep track of those favors that don’t have to require money (it can be any favor). 


Technical Specifications
    2.1 Platform: iOS Application
    2.2 Programming languages: Objective-C/Swing
    2.3 Stylistic conventions: CamelCase, function commenting
    2.4 SDK: iOS10
    2.5 IDE: Xcode
    2.6 Tools/Interfaces: iPhone
    2.7 Target Audience: Social media people


Functional Requirements
    3.1 Features
There will be community challenges (weekly?) for the users to works towards together
Complete a favor 0/5,000
Invite a friend 0/1,000, etc.
There will be individual weekly challenges for each user
Harder favors are worth more points than easier favors (user decides the point value for each favor)
Users can earn badges/titles for completing certain achievements to show off to their friends.
Users can level up when they reach a certain benchmark of points, earning them badges/titles
A phone number has to be associated with each account
Points only go up, not down.
3.2 Scope of Project
Being a “social” app, this app will have to be fun and attractive with long-term badges/titles that users can work towards to entice the user in inviting their friends to join. This app needs a high amount of users to be most effective and more fun.

