Musite
Introduction
Musite is a kind of wiki meant
chiefly for editing musical documents. It has been created, in connection
with the Gregorio Project,
as a way to facilitate editing works which contain both Gregorian
scores (made with Gregorio) and
classical scores (made with Lilypond).
From the main page, you may:

consult the list of existing projects;
create a new project.

From the list of projects, you may:

clone an existing project (through git, the version control system
  used by musite);
send a zip archive containing a project already begun elsewhere,
  which will then be made part of musite.

If you wish to have a project begun elsewhere become part of musite,
bear in mind the following:

the project's main directory should be compressed in the zip
  format;
the root of that zip archive must contain only the main directory;
if that directory contains a .git subdirectory, the history of
  earlier changes will be available in musite; otherwise, musite will
  initialize a new git repository, which will record subsequent
  changes.

Musite has been translated into English by means of
gettext; translations into
other languages are quite possible, if volunteers step forward.
Project
A project's main page posts:

the list of directories and files in the project;
if there is a Readme.md, its contents, located at the project's
  root.

It is possible to have several Readme files, to suit speakers of
different languages: if a user navigates to the English version of the
site and a file called Readme-en.md exists, that file will be
served.
The menu to the left on the main page offers:

a link to the project's page (this is useful after certain actions
  on the project);
the different actions possible.

Actions on a project
Unauthenticated user
An unauthenticated user may:

gain read-only access to a project's history, so as to follow the
  successive changes to the project's files;
download the project as a compressed zip archive.

Authenticated user
The actions available to an authenticated user depend on the
privileges which have been granted to that user. At present, there are
two levels of privileges:

administrators can change important parameters of the site (this
  is discussed in another section of the documentation);
editors can change documents and the directories within a project.

Besides the actions available to any user, here are those an editor
may perform:

copying a project;
creating documents or subdirectories;
sending changes to and receiving them from a remote repository;
inserting a file, or an archive containing files or directories,
  into a project;
gaining read-write access to the history, so as to undo changes;
renaming a project;
deleting a project.

All of these actions are reversible, except for deleting a project. If
you must delete a project, remember to download it, in order to have a
back-up.
See the next section for incorporating existing files or archives.
Directory
From a project's page, you may gain access to a directory by clicking
on its name. The directory's main page looks much like the project's,
with some differences:

besides the link to the root of the project, there is a link to the
  parent directory;
the available actions are those which make sense with directories.

Be sure to note the following points about incorporating existing
documents into musite:

when you send a single file, unless you check the box marked
  Overwrite the file if it exists, musite will begin by protecting
  a file with the same name;
however, when you incorporate an archive containing a tree
  (files and directories), musite will overwrite any existing files
  without warning. If you make a mistake, you can use musite's history
  to fix it.

Document
From a project or a directory, you may gain access to various
documents. Musite adapts to a file's extension; if a file has no
extension or an extension unknown to musite, that file is treated, if
possible, as a text file. For binary files of an unknown kind, no
preview is possible, but the other actions are available.
So, if a document's kind is known, its main page is a preview of the
document; if its kind is unknown, its source is shown.
The available actions on a document are:

for unauthenticated users, previewing it, showing its source, and
  viewing its history;
for editors, editing, copying, moving, and deleting, as well as
  gaining read-write access to its history.

Besides all this, some kinds of document offer export to various
formats: this allows you, say, to print a score in a different format
than presented in the document's preview.
Acceptable formats
At this time, musite can handle the following formats:

gabc for
  Gregorian scores;
lilypond for
  classical scores;
latex for typesetting publications;
markdown for enriched text;
txt for text documents; any document of unknown kind can be treated
  as plain text if it is not binary.
