GIFME
A little command line utility to wrap around some clever ffmpeg commands I lifted from this great blog post.
Requires ffmpeg as a dependency.
The defaults will produce high quality gifs at a very small file size when making gifs from screencaptured video.
Example:
This command makes a gif from a quicktime screencapture called screencapture.mov beginning at the 10 second mark and lasting 6 seconds. The gif will be 600px wide and aspect ratio will be preserved. We'll call the output gif chart.gif.
./gifme.sh -s 00:00:10 -d 6 -w 600 screencapture.mov chart.gif

If you need to reduce the file size further, try reducing the size, then the framerate, and then mess with the dithering options to get the size you need.
usage: gifme [-s start time ] [-d duration ] [ -w width ]
[ -f frames per second ] [ -b bayer scale filter] [INPUT FILE] [OUTPUT FILE]
Cut a video file and output a gif. The only required argument is the input
file argument.
Positional arguments:
- INPUT FILE
    A video file of (nearly) any format with extension
included.

OUTPUT FILE
  A .gif file to be written to disk. Defaults to 'output_gif.gif'. Optional.

Optional arguments:


-h HELP
  Shows this message.


-s START TIME
  Timecode to start gif. Uses format HH:MM:SS and can accept fractional seconds. Defaults to 00:00:00.


-d DURATION
Duration of gif in seconds or format HH:MM:SS.
Can accept fractional seconds. Defaults to 5.


-w WIDTH
A number, in pixels, representing desired width of output gif. Maintains aspect ratio. Defaults to -1 which is how ffmpeg represents maximum width.


-f FRAMES PER SECOND
A number 1-30 representing desired gif frames per
second. Defaults to 15.


-b BAYER SCALE
A number 1-3 representing desired Bayer Scale dithering filter. The Bayer Scale is responsible for the 'cross-hatch' overlay. A larger cross-hatch may speed up rendering and reduce filesize. Defaults to none. 1 is the smallest cross-hatch, 3 is the largest.


-o DITHERING OFF
Turns off dithering. Do not use this option with -b or the results may be unexpected.

