
title: Developers and Marketing
comments: true

I've had the privilege of attending my sixth Connections this past week as an employee of ExactTarget, now Salesforce.  When I first started, the content was exclusively about digital marketing - best practices, tips and tricks, better design standards, etc. This year, we changed all that.
In fact, over the last year, I have witnessed a shift in the way we think about developers. It's something I have always felt strongly about, but as the organization has matured and grown, it's becoming clear that with out developers, digital marketing wouldn't happen.
Marketing, at it's core, is the science of data.  You do something, observe the results, and modify to see the effects. The difference between the 50's admen, and today? The amount of data.
No longer is a generic demographic enough. The amount of insight into customers required to stay relevant today is astronomical - browse history, actions, purchases, preferences, family size, the way they like their eggs in the morning.  And where do we get this data?
From the websites they go to, the apps they use, the transportation they take, the watch they wear, their toothbrush - everything. No longer is this strictly a generalized poll of a region - this is sophisticated data mining.
And as a developer, I absolutely love it. This is why we made such a push to get the Developer Zone @ Connections - a first. And it was incredible.
I was able to work with an amazing team to help plan and execute a space just for developers including coffee bar, hack areas, free stuff, and plenty of tech talks to go around.
For any developer out there thinking they have no business doing marketing, think again - it's you the marketers need to be successful. Start learning. And do it now - in fact - the other amazing thing from this week that is a first - we now offer a Marketing Cloud Developer Edition - completely free.
It's a great time to be a developer in general, but this marketing thing - it's going to be huge. You are going to want to be a part of this.