MarkDown Link Suggestions


Suggests workspace files and MarkDown file headers in MarkDown links.

Installing
Either Click Install in the Visual Studio Marketplace
or search for markdown link suggestions in VS Code Extensions pane.
Updating
See the release history.
Visual Studio Code will update the extension for you automatically by default.
If you wish to change this behavior, set extensions.autoUpdate configuration value to false in VS Code's settings.json.
Running

Run npm run generate first if you want to work on the link context recognizer spike
Use the VS Code Extension debug configuration by pressing F5.

Testing

Travis  on Linux & macOS
Azure CI:
 on Windows
 on Linux
 on macOS

Run tests either using VS Code Extension Tests debug configuration or by running a platform appropriate test command:

npm run test:posix
npm run test:win32

It's recommended the extension is tested locally for a few days before rolling it out after bigger changes have been made:

Disable the installed Marketplace version of the extension
Execute vsce package
Verify only intended files are being packaged by inspecting the VSIX as a ZIP archive
Use the Install from VSIX… command to install the VSIX package version

Deploying
Deploying is not currently done on CI, instead it is manual:
Publishing

Run tests
Update version
Update changelog
Execute vsce publish

Contributing

See the todoes
[ ] Fix tests after changing the document symbol provider and the diagnostics provider function

Monitoring
This extension uses ApplicationInsights from Azure for telemetry and events collected include:

activation
suggestion
deactivation

After initial testing, the event scope will be reduced to just suggestion errors to aid in fixing.
If you'd prefer telemetry not be collected, pleae disable VS Code telemetry.
You can learn how to do so here.
The extension respects the VS Code setting and will not send telemetry events against your wishes.
If you want concerns about the scope of the data collected:
MarkDown-Link-Suggestions - Events
Unfortunately, it doesn't appear as though Application Insights can be made public for reading,
but I will be happy to invite any concerned users to the Azure Application Insights resource
so that you can do an informed decision about whether using this extension with telemetry
enabled is acceptable for you or not.