OSSEC HIDS Monitor
OSSEC HIDS Monitor ("OHM") is an application designed to monitor, and process
security alerts logged to a centralised repository by OSSEC HIDS,
a popular open source host intrusion detection system.
A characteristic of OSSEC HIDS is that the hosts and resources protected by
it are liable to generate a significant number of events, of which, some are
more important than others in the relevant context. The purpose of OHM is to
provide an application framework that is capable of performing oversight
activities in relation to one or more OSSEC HIDS monitored hosts and resources
to enable more sophisticated approach to their ongoing management.
Fundamentally, OHM is intended to enable a person responsible for managing a
significant number of internet-facing systems subject to security risks to be
able to focus on risks at the right level of abstraction thereby saving time
and reducing the cost of service provision.
Application architecture
OHM is structured in terms of an application mainframe that is responsible
for monitoring the OSSEC HIDS alert repository, and one or more modules that
may be enabled to process the alerts in accordance with business
requirements.
Application mainframe
The application mainframe is responsible for managing the alerts generated by
OSSEC HIDS: reliably communicating them to the active modules and recording
any metadata generated by the relevant module on processing.
The nature of security alerts is that it may not be appropriate for a module
to process alerts sequentially per se; rather, depending on the nature of the
module it may be more appropriate for the module to collect information
relating to any number of alerts before making any decision with respect to
them. Consequently, OHM is designed to draw a distinction between dispatching
alerts to individual modules, and receiving any interim or final results or
metadata.
Alert processing modules
\<work in progress>
JIRA alert processing module
\<work in progress>
Command line options
help (alternatively, -h) displays help information for the application
mainframe, and the available modules.
list (alternatively, -l) displays the list of available modules.
config <file>.conf (alternatively, -c <file>.conf) specifies the pathname
for the configuration file.
from <date> (alternatively, -f <date>) specifies the start of the period
over which OHM should process alerts from the OSSEC HIDS alert repository.
<date> may be specified as an ISO-8601 date of the form YYYY-MM-DD, or
in the following relative terms: today, or tomorrow. The from date is
taken to refer to the start of the relevant day in the relevant time zone.
to <date> (alternatively, -t <date>) specifies the end of the period over
which OHM should process alerts from the OSSEC HIDS alert repository. <date>
may be specified as an ISO-8601 date of the form YYYY-MM-DD, or in the
following relative terms: now. The to date is taken to refer to the end
of the relevant day in the relevant time zone or, where the date specified is
the present day, the time "now".
Environment variables
OHM_HOME
OHM_CONFIG_PATHNAME
Configuration
OHM is configured using a JSON file structured as follows, where references
to JSON values in the form <...> are references to the data dictionary
provided in the subsection below -

Data dictionary
<alert-source-uri>
<alert-threshold>