NetworkLearning
A Julia package for network learning.




Introduction
NetworkLearning implements a generic framework for network classification. It could in theory be used to provide additional functionality (i.e. semi-supervised learning, regression),
provided that appropriate methods for relational learning (i.e. relational variable generation) and collective inference are added. The framework is designed to make as little assumptions as possible on the elements involved in the process.  
Two scenarios or usecases are covered:


Observation-based learning, in which the network structure is pertinent to the observations and consequently, estimates (i.e. class probabilities) are associated to the observations; in the estimation process, relational structures can either make use the training data (in-graph learning) or not (out-of-graph learning). For example, in the case of document classifcation, an observation would correspond to a publication that has to be classified into an arbitrary category, given a representation of its local content-based information as well on the its relational information (links to other documents, citations etc.).  


Entity-based learning, in which observations are pertinent to one or more abstract entities for which estimates are calculated. In entity-based network learning, observations can modify either the local or relational information of one or more entities.


Features


Learner type

observation-based
entity-based



Relational learners

simple relational neighbour
weighted/probabilistic relational neighbour
naive bayes
class distribution



Collective inference

relaxation labeling
collective classification
gibbs sampling (EXPERIMENTAL, slow)



Adjacency strucures

matrices
graphs
tuples containing functions and data from which adjacency matrices or graphs can be computed



Observation-based network learning example

The output of the above code is:

Entity-based network learning example

The output of the above code is:

Documentation
The documentation is provided in Julia's native docsystem. 
Installation
The package can be installed by running Pkg.add("NetworkLearning") or, to check out the latest version,
Pkg.checkout("NetworkLearning.jl") in the Julia REPL. From v0.1.0, only versions of Julia above 0.7 
are supported. Julia v.0.6 support can be found in the support_julia_v0.6 branch (currently unmantained).
License
This code has an MIT license and therefore it is free.
References
[1] S.A. Macskassy, F. Provost "Classification in networked data: A toolkit and a univariate case study", Journal of Machine learning Research 8, 2007, 935-983
[2] P. Sen, G. Namata, M. Bilgic, L. Getoor, B. Gallagher, T. Eliassi-Rad "Collective classification in network data", AI Magazine 29(3), 2008