Notice
This project is no longer maintained.
NASA now has an API for this data which I recommend using instead. To use it,
sign up for a key and
then check out their documentation.
There's also a number of node modules
that wrap the API.
Introduction
apod.js is a JavaScript library that offers simple access to data published on the Astronomy Picture of the Day website.
Setup
Download a copy of apod.js and attach it to your document.

Data frequently includes non-English characters, so be sure to use UTF-8 encoding.
html
<meta charset="utf-8" />
Examples

API Documentation
Methods
apod.get
Load data from a single Astronomy Picture of the Day.
Parameters
date
The date an Astronomy Picture of the Day was published, in the form of a JavaScript Date object. Time and timezone are ignored.
success
A callback to run if no errors are thrown. The callback is passed one argument: an APOD object.
failure
A callback to run if an error is thrown. The callback is passed two arguments: the first is the name of the error, the second is its description.
apod.getBetween
Load data from several consecutive Astronomy Pictures of the Day.
Parameters
startDate
The start date (inclusively), in the form of a JavaScript Date object. Time and timezone are ignored.
endDate
The end date (inclusively), in the form of a JavaScript Date object. Time and timezone are ignored.
success
A callback to run if no errors are thrown. The callback is passed one argument: an array of APOD objects.
failure
A callback to run if an error is thrown. The callback is passed two arguments: the first is the name of the error, the second is its description.
The APOD Object
APOD objects are used to represent Astronomy Pictures of the Day. These objects are simply collections of data, with one named property for each type of data.
Properties
date
The day the Astronomy Picture of the Day was published, in the form of a JavaScript Date object. NASA does not publish time or timezone information, so the Date object defaults to midnight in the user's timezone.
url
The URL of the Astronomy Picture of the Day landing page. The landing page lists the picture itself as well as a title, an explanation, navigational links, and other information.
title
The Astronomy Picture of the Day title.
explanation
The Astronomy Picture of the Day explanation. Often contains HTML.
credit
The credit for the picture or video. Often contains HTML.
pictureURL
The URL of a high-resolution version of the picture. This is usually shown after clicking the thumbnail in the center of the day's landing page. Not always available. Sometimes, only thumbnails are published.
pictureThumbnailURL
The URL of the picture's thumbnail. This is usually shown in the center of the day's landing page.
videoURL
The URL of the video that was published, or an empty string. (Videos are sometimes published instead of pictures.)
Errors
NothingPublishedError
Thrown when no Astronomy Pictures of the Day were published on the given date or between the given start and end dates (inclusively).
Browser support
apod.js should work in any browser that supports CORS, but has only been confirmed to work in the following.

Chrome 14+
Firefox 3.6+
Internet Explorer 8+
Opera 12.00+
Safari 5.1+
